pointcloud_processing/README.md, before:

# Pointcept

The baseline for pointcloud segmentation is obtained using the [Pointcept](https://github.com/Pointcept/Pointcept) framework with the [PTv3](https://github.com/Pointcept/PointTransformerV3) backbone for semantic segmentation.

Our [fork](https://github.com/FraunhoferIOSB/Pointcept) contains the configurations required to train PTv3 on the GOOSE-Dataset. A docker container is provided for easy use (tested with CUDA_VERSION=11.7 and CUDNN_VERSION=8):

```
git clone -b goose https://github.com/FraunhoferIOSB/Pointcept
cd Pointcept/scripts
./build_image.sh
```

For a development setup, we overlay our Pointcept repo as well as the dataset into the container. Please adapt both paths in the `scripts/run_image.sh` script to your need.

## Download Pretrained weights

The baseline-weights can be downloaded from the [website](https://goose-dataset.de/models/challenge_ptv3.pth) into the experiment folder:

```
cd /workspace/Pointcept
mkdir -p exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/model
wget -O exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/model/model_best.pth https://bwsyncandshare.kit.edu/s/ExDe9x5gsDCQ2kW/download/challenge_ptv3.pth
```

## Testing on GOOSE

You can run the configuration against the val or test splits and generate the submission files for uploading to CodaBench:

```
sh ./scripts/test.sh -g 1 -d goose -c semseg-pt-v3m1-0-base -n semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline
```

After successful evaluation on the test split, the resulting `.label` files will be generated in `exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/result/submit/`

## Training on GOOSE

To train on the current baseline configuration, you can run:

```
sh ./scripts/train.sh -g 1 -d goose -c semseg-pt-v3m1-0-base -n my-experiment-name
```

The baseline model evaluated on the validation set should perform like that: 

```
Val result: mIoU/mAcc/allAcc 0.8096/0.8576/0.9197
Class_0 - other Result: iou/accuracy 0.9686/0.9766
Class_1 - artificial_structures Result: iou/accuracy 0.8773/0.9065
Class_2 - artificial_ground Result: iou/accuracy 0.7097/0.7871
Class_3 - natural_ground Result: iou/accuracy 0.8220/0.9487
Class_4 - obstacle Result: iou/accuracy 0.4554/0.5121
Class_5 - vehicle Result: iou/accuracy 0.8954/0.9197
Class_6 - vegetation Result: iou/accuracy 0.9179/0.9509
Class_7 - human Result: iou/accuracy 0.8302/0.8589
```

## Submitting your results to CodaBench

TODO
- zip results
- upload

## Acknowledgements

Please cite [Pointcept](https://github.com/Pointcept/Pointcept) if you use their model!

```
@inproceedings{wu2024ptv3,
    title={Point Transformer V3: Simpler, Faster, Stronger},
    author={Wu, Xiaoyang and Jiang, Li and Wang, Peng-Shuai and Liu, Zhijian and Liu, Xihui and Qiao, Yu and Ouyang, Wanli and He, Tong and Zhao, Hengshuang},
    booktitle={CVPR},
    year={2024}
}
```

# Data Visualizaton

We use the a slightly adapted version of the [semantic-kitti-api](https://github.com/PRBonn/semantic-kitti-api) visualizer, that can be run from the `pointcloud_processing/tools/visualize_3d_data.py`. The only dependency is `python3-vispy`.

The visualizer can be invoked using:
```
python3 visualize_3d_data.py --dataset data/goose/3d/ -c ../common/goose_kitti-visualizer.yaml
```

If you want to visualize data from a specific sequence or platform, you can use a regex:

```
python3 visualize_3d_data.py --dataset data/goose/3d/ -r ".*spot_scenario04.*"
```

Commit message:

docs: add submission instructions for the 3D challenge

pointcloud_processing/README.md, after:

# Pointcept

The baseline for pointcloud segmentation is obtained using the [Pointcept](https://github.com/Pointcept/Pointcept) framework with the [PTv3](https://github.com/Pointcept/PointTransformerV3) backbone for semantic segmentation.

Our [fork](https://github.com/FraunhoferIOSB/Pointcept) contains the configurations required to train PTv3 on the GOOSE-Dataset. A docker container is provided for easy use (tested with CUDA_VERSION=11.7 and CUDNN_VERSION=8):

```
git clone -b goose https://github.com/FraunhoferIOSB/Pointcept
cd Pointcept/scripts
./build_image.sh
```

For a development setup, we overlay our Pointcept repo as well as the dataset into the container. Please adapt both paths in the `scripts/run_image.sh` script to your need.

## Download Pretrained weights

The baseline-weights can be downloaded from the [website](https://goose-dataset.de/models/challenge_ptv3.pth) into the experiment folder:

```
cd /workspace/Pointcept
mkdir -p exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/model
wget -O exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/model/model_best.pth https://bwsyncandshare.kit.edu/s/ExDe9x5gsDCQ2kW/download/challenge_ptv3.pth
```

## Testing on GOOSE

You can run the configuration against the val or test splits and generate the submission files for uploading to CodaBench:

```
sh ./scripts/test.sh -g 1 -d goose -c semseg-pt-v3m1-0-base -n semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline
```

After successful evaluation on the test split, the resulting `.label` files will be generated in `exp/goose/semseg-ptv3-challenge-goose-baseline/result/submit/`

## Training on GOOSE

To train on the current baseline configuration, you can run:

```
sh ./scripts/train.sh -g 1 -d goose -c semseg-pt-v3m1-0-base -n my-experiment-name
```

The baseline model evaluated on the validation set should perform like that: 

```
Val result: mIoU/mAcc/allAcc 0.8096/0.8576/0.9197
Class_0 - other Result: iou/accuracy 0.9686/0.9766
Class_1 - artificial_structures Result: iou/accuracy 0.8773/0.9065
Class_2 - artificial_ground Result: iou/accuracy 0.7097/0.7871
Class_3 - natural_ground Result: iou/accuracy 0.8220/0.9487
Class_4 - obstacle Result: iou/accuracy 0.4554/0.5121
Class_5 - vehicle Result: iou/accuracy 0.8954/0.9197
Class_6 - vegetation Result: iou/accuracy 0.9179/0.9509
Class_7 - human Result: iou/accuracy 0.8302/0.8589
```

## Submitting your results to Codabench

To submit your data to the [GOOSE 3D Semantic Segmentation Challenge](https://www.codabench.org/competitions/5745/) on Codabench, generate `.label` files for all the point clouds files in the test set and place them in a `.zip` file.

The size of the test set depends on the competitions phase:
- development phase (until April 15, 2025): 360 `.label` files (20% subset of the test set)
- final phase (from April 16, 2025 to April 30, 2025): 1815 `.label` files

To get the scenes for the test set submission during the development phase, please visit the **Timeline** tab on the [competition page](https://www.codabench.org/competitions/5745/).
The final phase uses all scenes from the test sets of the GOOSE and GOOSE-EX datasets.

The `.zip` file should have the following structure:
```
-- choose_any_name_for_your_zip_file.zip
    |
    |--- alice_scenario01_sequence14_0000_1691670603503509000_goose.label  # prediction on scene from ALICE
    |--- ...
    |--- 2022-07-07_campus_no_ptp__0000_1657197242779529338_goose.label # prediction on scene from MuCAR-3
    |--- ...
    | --- spot_scenario01_sequence05_0000_1687364796081724000_goose.label # prediction on scene from Spot v1 (low setup)
    |--- ...
    | --- spot_scenario06_sequence03_0000_1706713034059226000_goose.label # prediction on scene from Spot v2 (high setup)
```

You can then submit the `.zip` file in the **My Submissions** tab on the [competition page](https://www.codabench.org/competitions/5745/).
This requires you to have an account on Codabench and join the competition.

## Acknowledgements

Please cite [Pointcept](https://github.com/Pointcept/Pointcept) if you use their model!

```
@inproceedings{wu2024ptv3,
    title={Point Transformer V3: Simpler, Faster, Stronger},
    author={Wu, Xiaoyang and Jiang, Li and Wang, Peng-Shuai and Liu, Zhijian and Liu, Xihui and Qiao, Yu and Ouyang, Wanli and He, Tong and Zhao, Hengshuang},
    booktitle={CVPR},
    year={2024}
}
```

# Data Visualizaton

We use the a slightly adapted version of the [semantic-kitti-api](https://github.com/PRBonn/semantic-kitti-api) visualizer, that can be run from the `pointcloud_processing/tools/visualize_3d_data.py`. The only dependency is `python3-vispy`.

The visualizer can be invoked using:
```
python3 visualize_3d_data.py --dataset data/goose/3d/ -c ../common/goose_kitti-visualizer.yaml
```

If you want to visualize data from a specific sequence or platform, you can use a regex:

```
python3 visualize_3d_data.py --dataset data/goose/3d/ -r ".*spot_scenario04.*"
```
